Welcome back everyone to feature extraction from text in this lecture.
We're going to be learning about a basic manual implementation of building out a vocabulary just to
give you a little bit of more intuition behind building out a vocabulary across multiple documents.
Then we'll learn how to use the sikat learn library for Victoria Station as well as how to build pipelines
for natural language processing with sikat Hitler.
Let's open up the notebook and get started.
All right.
If you check out the text classification folder there is a notebook labeled feature extraction from
text and if you open up that feature extraction from text notebook it's divided into two sections.
The first section is basically showing you how to build out a natural language processor from scratch
particularly how to build out a vocabulary giving each word a unique ID will briefly walk through that.
We're not actually going to live code anything there and then we'll actually show you how I perform
these steps using the real psychic learned tools.
So just to give you a little bit more intuition of what's happening at the very base level behind every
natural language processor is the fact they need to build out a vocabulary.
So we're going to start off with some documents and keep my you don't really need to memorize this code.
You never actually implement this manually in real life.
Again just to build out an intuition here we're going to write two text files and keep mine.
These two text files if you're not using Jupiter they're available right here as to x files inside the
text classification folder.
And then we can build out a vocabulary.
So this is essentially the first step in natural language processing regardless of what method you're
going to be using.
You do have to assign some sort of vocabulary across all your documents and the way this works is we're
going to build out a dictionary and then set an ID counter then we're going to open each text file and
we're going to read in lowercase sing all the words so that we have a list of all the words then for
every word in that list of words if that word is already in the vocabulary dictionary will just continue
if that word is not present a cross over cavalry.
We'll go ahead and assign it a unique ID number and then we'll add one to the IDs tracker.
That way we go ahead and make sure that each next word gets a unique ID.
Again we're not really counting the number of occurrences yet.
We're just giving each word a unique ID so we can print out the vocabulary dictionary and we see this
is one is is two is three stories four and so on.
So each of these strings or words is getting a unique ID then we do the same thing for the second textfile
using the same vocabulary dictionary as before.
And notice we're again checking if that word is already present in the vocabulary.
So for a word like story shows up in both documents we know that it has a unique ID across all the documents
so story ID is for or in this location for and then we can store it that way and know that even though
2.6 C has 15 words we ended up only adding 7 new words to that vocabulary dictionary.
And so we've essentially encapsulated our entire language across all the documents in a dictionary so
we can then begin to perform feature extraction on each of our original documents.
So what we could do is for each of these documents we can create an empty vector space for each word
in the vocabulary.
So all I'm doing here is I'm saying one that ticks he has a string and then I'm adding a bunch of zeros
for each vocabulary word that's present in this dictionary right here.
That one is going to do is going to map the frequencies of each word across a text document.
So again reading in all those words are now actually going to count the words and then I'm going to
count them based off their exposition so we can see here that these particular words at these positions
end up showing one time that I have a word here that shows up twice and then the rest of these words
don't show up and the times they're only showing up in the other documents.
So most of the time you're going to get a bunch of zeros and we explain this before.
That means we're going to create a sparse matrix as we end up doing this for the other documents.
So if we do this the same for the second document you get something that looks like this.
Again a bunch of zeros for words that weren't used in the second document.
So now we can begin to compare the vectors and we see that some words are common to both.
Some appear only one that ticks.
Others appear only in two that ticks T.
And we're essentially going to extend this logic to tens of thousands of documents and we begin to see
the vocabulary Dictionnaire grow to hundreds of thousands of words and the vectors again were mostly
contain zero values making them sparse matrices.
So now let's explore how we can learn about bag of words and T.F. IDF as well as using stop words Bortz
them.
Tokenization and tagging.
So you can go ahead and read these descriptions here.
A lot of this what we went over in that previous lecture.
But we're going to now begin feature extraction from text.
So for this I'm going to be again working with this messaging dataset.
But now we're working directly with the message data.
So I'm going to open up a brand new notebook and then follow along with that actual data set and using
sikat learn to perform this feature extraction.
The first thing to do is I'm going to import non-players MP and import panderers as PD and then we'll
read in that file by saying read underscore CXXVI and then underneath the text files I have the Esam
as spam collection.
It's a TSB file meaning it's separated by tabs.
And we can confirm this by checking out the head of that document.
Previously we learned about sikat learn and how we can build a machine learning classifier given numerical
information.
What we want to do now is take this raw text information and vectorize it now is always a good idea
to check for missing values.
So one way to do that is saying DMF is null and taking some of that and they'll return back zeros if
there are no missing values.
Keep in mind you may also want to be a little more clever in this and check for strings that are empty.
Maybe a missing value is not actually a completely missing value.
It could just be a string of one space or something like that.
Now we'll talk about that more in your assessment.
But keep that in mind.
OK.
So we're going to do is take again a quick look at the label column and then call value counts here.
You can see we have seven hundred forty seven instances of spam and 4000 825 instances of him.
Next we're going to split the data into a training set and a test set.
So we will say from S-K learn the model selection
import train test split and then we're going to actually just look at the text.
So I'm not even going to bother with the length of the message or the punctuation.
I'm only going to be using the raw text as the feature itself.
So I will say x is equal to the F message and Y is equal to if label and just by convention X is capitalized
and Y is lower case that has to do with the fact that X kind of represents a larger matrix and Y is
essentially a one dimensional array of just a bunch of labels Hamers spam.
So an often question I get is why is X capitalized and why is lowercase.
So the reason why just convention.
Next we're going to actually perform the train split so when called Train to split do shift tab on this
after you've imported it and you should be able to scroll down here and copy and paste right here.
This command in order to save yourself a little bit of typing and we've already covered how the train
to split works.
So just going to pass in our X and r y we will choose a test size that's appropriate so we can say test
size is equal to.
And again there's no right or wrong answer but 30 percent or 33 percent a third of your data is pretty
common.
And then we will say a random state to make sure you're trained to split is randomized the same way
minus or following on.
Exactly.
And you can just choose an arbitrary number so I'll choose 42 and you can choose 42 as well.
So you get the same split I do next.
It's time to actually perform count vectorization.
So Tex pre-processing tokenizer.
And the ability to filter out Stop words are all included in count victimiser which builds a dictionary
of features and transforms documents to feature vectors and to use Skillern for this.
We simply say from Learn the feature extraction text import and if hit tab here you can essentially
scroll down and see the various things that are available like T.F. idea of transformer vectorize or
vectorize or hashing vectorize or et cetera.
Right now we're just going to use the Count vector Isar then we create an instance of the count vector
Isar So I'd say count underscore that is equal to count vectorize or.
So now you have this instance of this count vector Isar.
So what I need to do is if I take a look at X it's right now still in raw text form what I want to do
is pass it into the count vector Isar and then transform this.
So there's two ways of doing this.
The first thing I need to do is actually fit the vector Roser to the data and what that does is it does
things like build a vocabulary and then it also does things like count the number of words and so on
then the next step I need to do is transform the original text message to the vector.
So this is known as a fit transform and there's two ways of doing this.
One way is to first do your fitting and then do your transform.
So you can do something like this or you can say count vectorize or fit to the training data and then
say that my vectorized X train counts is equal to count vectorize victimiser and then call transform
on your X training data.
So that's one way to do it to fit essentially building on your vocabulary counting the words and then
actually doing the transformation.
So fitting by itself doesn't do the transformation you have to actually call that transform.
So because almost always you do a fit and the transform together there's a convenience method that sikat
learn has which is called if you call counter-act It's called Fit transform and essentially does these
two steps for you.
So you may see it both ways when you read the documentation you may see it as two separate steps fitting
and then transforming or you may see it done in one line with this transform because it is so common
to do these operations in conjunction.
I'm going to comment this out and do it in one step.
Since that's a little more efficient and we're just going to pass in our extremely data and this is
going to fit essentially learn the vocabulary cut the number of words and then transform X train.
So that's actually a vector numerical vectors so say X train counts and so that equal to the count vector
Isar fit transform on the extreme data.
So I run that and now I'm extremely data victory's or has fit and train on it and then transformed the
original data.
So if I take a look at x train counts notice that I actually can't view it because it's a huge sparse
matrix.
So sikat learn is actually smart enough to compress this into a compressed sparse Rove format.
The way this works is you can imagine that if you have a bunch of zeros in a row it would make sense
to actually compress this information and just count the number of rows you have or count the number
of zeros you have in a row.
So extreme counts.
Notice it's three thousand seven hundred thirty three by seven thousand eighty two.
So if you actually take a look at the original x train data and check the shape of it it has three thousand
733 messages.
So across all those messages there was seven thousand eighty two unique words.
So a lot of those words are not going to show up in most of the text messages.
You have a ton of zeros because of this sikat learn a PI are able to compress using the information
that there's so many zeros there in order to save space in them or in your computer.
So we're not going be able to directly see the sparse matrix unless we particularly call for it but
that's usually not a good idea because you don't want to use that space in memory because it's not needed.
We can let some PI be smarter about this.
OK.
So we have our original X-Trace shape those messages.
And now if we Cecco X counts and asked for the shape of that we now see all those messages and then
the vocab count that remember the vocab count we saw earlier.
We come back to this feature extraction from text as well as the previous slide that right now is just
looking something like this.
Essentially all those counts across all those text messages where most of them are going to be zeros.
Next we want to do is transform the counts to frequencies with T.F. IDF then we'll combine the steps
with ATF IDF vectorize or we'll train the classifier and build the pipeline.
We'll go ahead and continue right where we left off in the next lecture.
But as a quick recap so far we've just read in our data we've imported and ran a train test split on
this.
We did a count of vectorization and then fit transform on the training data.
I'll see you in the next lecture.
We continue by combining these steps with term frequency inversed document frequency analysis.